




DNS Resolution Error - Domain Not Found, Or Domain not added to hosting account







DNS Resolution Error
The domain you're trying to reach cannot be found



🔍 What's Happening?

DNS Record Not Found: The Domain Name System (DNS) cannot locate the IP address for this domain. This means the website's DNS records either don't exist, haven't been configured properly, or haven't propagated across the internet yet.
		    Or the requested domain is not yet added to an active hosting account.

DNS (Domain Name System) is like the internet's phone book - it translates human-readable domain names (like example.com) into IP addresses that computers use to connect to websites. When you see this page, it means this translation process has failed.


🛠️ Quick Solutions

1. Flush Your DNS Cache
Your computer stores DNS information temporarily. Clearing this cache can resolve outdated entries:
Windows:
ipconfig /flushdns
macOS:
sudo dscacheutil -flushcache
Linux:
sudo systemctl restart systemd-resolved


2. Try Different DNS Servers
Switch to public DNS servers that might have more up-to-date records:


Google Public DNS
Primary: 8.8.8.8
Secondary: 8.8.4.4
                            

Cloudflare DNS
Primary: 1.1.1.1
Secondary: 1.0.0.1
                            

Quad9 DNS
Primary: 9.9.9.9
Secondary: 149.112.112.112
                            



3. Wait for DNS Propagation

⏱️ Typical Propagation Times:

Local ISP: 15 minutes - 2 hours
Regional providers: 2 - 8 hours
Global propagation: 24 - 48 hours
Full propagation: Up to 72 hours





📚 Understanding DNS Propagation
DNS propagation is the time it takes for DNS changes to spread across the internet's network of DNS servers worldwide. When a domain's DNS records are created or updated, these changes don't happen instantly everywhere.
Why Does Propagation Take Time?

Caching: DNS servers cache records for a specified time (TTL - Time To Live)
Global Network: Thousands of DNS servers worldwide need to update
ISP Policies: Some internet providers refresh DNS records on their own schedule
Geographic Location: Servers closer to the authoritative DNS update faster



🔧 Advanced Troubleshooting

Check DNS Resolution
Use these commands to test DNS resolution:
nslookup yourdomain.com
dig yourdomain.com
ping yourdomain.com


Try Different Networks
Test the domain on:

Mobile data (different ISP)
Different WiFi network
VPN connection
Public WiFi




🌐 Helpful Resources


Google Public DNS
                            Setup instructions
                        

Cloudflare DNS
                            Fast DNS resolver
                        



🕐 What to Do Now

Try the quick solutions above - flush DNS cache and try different DNS servers
Wait 2-4 hours and try again if this is a new domain or recent DNS change
Test from different devices/networks to isolate the issue




This page is displayed when DNS resolution fails for a domain. The issue is typically temporary and resolves within a few hours.
Page generated automatically due to DNS resolution failure






                    Looking for NVMe super fast hosting with unlimited space and free domain?
                

                    Visit iFastNet!
                






